README.md, before:

# Book Tracker Web App

I built this simple web application as part of my Tech Exercise assignment.

## Overview

The goal of the project is to demonstrate how to insert data and perform searches in a database through a user -friendly web interface. The web application allows me to record book information — including title, author, genre and a short summary — and it provides search functionality to retrieve stored entries by title or author.

## Technology Stack

- **Framework:** Flask (Python) — I used Flask to build the web application with minimal overhead.
- **Database:** SQLite — a lightweight database integrated with Python; suitable for small‑scale applications.
- **Version Control:** GitHub — used to manage my source code and track development history.

## Features

- Add new book entries with title, author, genre and summary fields.
- Search existing book records by title or author.
- List all stored books on the main page.

## Getting Started

To run the Book Tracker locally:

1. Make sure you have Python installed and, optionally, create and activate a virtual environment.  
2. Install dependencies with `pip install -r requirements.txt`.  
3. Run the application with `python book_tracker.py`. This starts a local development server.  
4. Open your browser and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:5000/books` to view and use the Book Tracker.  

Feel free to explore, add books, and search the catalogue.

Commit message:

Update README: reflect year field and add live application URL

README.md, after:

# Book Tracker Web App

I built this simple web application as part of my Tech Exercise assignment.

## Overview

The goal of this project is to demonstrate how to insert data and perform searches in a database through a user -friendly web interface. The web application allows me to record book information — including title, author, and year — and it provides search functionality to retrieve stored entries. Users can view a list of books, search by title, author or year, and add new books through a form.

## Technology Stack

- **Flask** – Web framework for routing and handling requests.
- **SQLite** – Lightweight relational database for storing book data.
- **Bootstrap** – CSS framework for a responsive, modern UI.
- **GitHub & Render** – Version control and cloud hosting; the live application runs on Render.

## Features

- View a list of books stored in the database.
- Search for books by title, author, or year.
- Add a new book with its title, author, and year.
- Responsive UI built with Bootstrap.

## Getting Started

To run the application locally:

1. Install Python and optionally create a virtual environment.
2. Install dependencies:

   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Run the application:

   ```
   python app.py
   ```

4. Navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:5000/books` in your browser.

## Live Application

You can try the live application here: <https://hello-world-cloud.onrender.com/books>
